It is well known that Maxwell's electrodynamics as usually understood at present when applied to moving bodies, leads to asymmetries that do not seem to attach to the phenomena. Let us recall, for example, the electrodynamic interaction between a magnet and a conductor. The observable phenomenon depends here only on the relative motion of conductor and magnet, while according to the customary conception the two cases, in which, respectively, either the one or the other of the two bodies is the one in motion, are to be strictly differentiated from each other. For if the magnet is in motion and the conductor is at rest, there arises in the surroundings of the magnet an electric field endowed with a certain energy value that produces a current in the places where parts of the conductor are located. But if the magnet is at rest and the conductor is in motion, no electric field arises in the surroundings of the magnet, while in the conductor an electromotive force will arise, to which in itself there does not correspond any energy, but which, provided that the relative motion in the two cases considered is the same, gives rise to electrical currents that have the same magnitude and the same course as those produced by the electric forces in the first-mentioned case. 

Examples of a similar kind, and the failure of attempts to detect a motion of the earth relative to the  light medium , lead to the conjecture that not only in mechanics, but in electrodynamics as well, the phenomena do not have any properties corresponding to the concept of absolute rest, but that in all coordinate systems in which the mechanical equations are valid, also the same electrodynamic and optical laws are valid, as has already been shown for quantities of the first order. We shall raise this conjecture (whose content will be called  the principle of relativity  hereafter) to the status of a postulate and shall introduce, in addition, the postulate, only seemingly incompatible with the former one, that in empty space light is always propagated with a definite velocity V which is independent of the state of motion of the emitting body. These two postulates suffice for arriving at a simple and consistent electrodynamics of moving bodies on the basis of Maxwell's theory for bodies at rest. The introduction of a  light ether  will prove superfluous, inasmuch as in accordance with the concept to be developed here, no  space at absolute rest  endowed with special properties will be introduced, nor will a velocity vector be assigned to a point of empty space at which electromagnetic processes are taking place. 

Like every other electrodynamics, the theory to be developed is based on the kinematics of the rigid body, since assertions of each and any theory concern the relations between rigid bodies (coordinate systems), clocks, and electromagnetic processes. Insufficient regard for this circumstance is at the root of the difficulties with which the electrodynamics of moving bodies must presently grapple.

Kinematic Part

Definition of simultaneity

Consider a coordinate system in which the Newtonian mechanical equations are valid. To distinguish it verbally from the coordinate systems that will be introduced later on, and to visualize it more precisely, we will designate this system as the  system at rest.  

If a material point is at rest relative to this coordinate system, its position relative to the latter can be determined by means of rigid measuring rods using the methods of Euclidean geometry and can be expressed in Cartesian coordinates. 

If we want to describe the motion of a material point, we give the values of its coordinates as a function of time. However, we should keep in mind that for such a mathematical description to have physical meaning, we first have to clarify what is to be understood here by  time.  We have to bear in mind that all our propositions involving time are always propositions about simultaneous events. If, for example, I say that  the train arrives here at 7 o'clock,  that means, more or less,  the pointing of the small hand of my clock to 7 and the arrival of the train are simultaneous events. 

It might seem that all difficulties involved in the definition of  time  could be overcome by my substituting  position of the small hand of my clock  for  time.  Such a definition is indeed sufficient if time has to be defined exclusively for the place at which the clock is located; but the definition becomes insufficient as soon as series of events occurring at different locations have to be linked temporally, or-what amounts to the same-events occurring at places remote from the clock have to be evaluated temporally. 

To be sure, we could content ourselves with evaluating the time of the events by stationing an observer with the clock at the coordinate origin, and having him assign the corresponding clock-hand position to each light signal that attests to an event to be evaluated and reaches him through empty space. But as we know from experience, such an assignment has the drawback that it is not independent of the position of the observer equipped with the clock. We arrive at a far more practical arrangement by the following consideration. If there is a clock at point A of space, then an observer located at A can evaluate the time of the events in the immediate vicinity of A by finding the clock-hand positions that are simultaneous with these events. 

If there is also a clock at point B-we should add,  a clock of exactly the same constitution as that at A -then the time of the events in the immediate vicinity of B can likewise be evaluated by an observer located at B. But it is not possible to compare the time of an event at A with one at B without a further stipulation; thus far we have only defined an  A-time  and a  B-time  but not a  time  common to A and B. The latter can now be determined by establishing by definition that the  time  needed for the light to travel from A to B is equal to the  time  it needs to travel from B to A. For, suppose a ray of light leaves from A toward B at  A-time  tA, is reflected from B toward A at  B-time  tB, and arrives back at A at  A-time  t'A. The two clocks are synchronous by definition if tB - tA = t'A - t'B. We assume that it is possible for this definition of synchronism to be free of contradictions, and to be so for arbitrarily many points, and that the following relations are therefore generally valid if:

1. If the clock in B is synchronous with the clock in A, then the clock in A is synchronous with the clock in B. 

2. If the clock in A is synchronous with the clock in B as well as with the clock in C, then the clocks in B and C are also synchronous relative to each other. 

With the help of some physical (thought) experiments, we have thus laid down what is to be understood by synchronous clocks at rest that are situated at different places, and have obviously obtained thereby a definition of  synchronous  and of  time.  The  time  of an event is the reading obtained simultaneously with the event from a clock at rest that is located at the place of the event and that for all time determinations is in synchrony with a specified clock at rest. 

Based on experience, we also postulate that the quantity 
\begin{equation}
2 A B \over t'A - tA  
\end{equation}
is a universal constant (the velocity of light in empty space). 

It is essential that we have defined time by means of clocks at rest in a system at rest; because it belongs to the system at rest, we designate the time just defined as  the time of the system at rest. 

On the relativity of lengths and times

The considerations that follow are based on the principle of relativity and the principle of the constancy of the velocity of light, two principles that we define as follows: 

1. The laws governing the changes of the state of any physical system do not depend on which one of two coordinate systems in uniform translational motion relative to each other these changes of the state are referred to. 

2. Each ray of light moves in the coordinate system  at rest  with the definite velocity V independent of whether this ray of light is emitted by a body at rest or a body in motion. Here, 
\begin{equation}
velocity = light path \over time interval 
\end{equation}
 where  time interval  should be understood in the sense of the definition in S1. 

Let there be given a rigid rod at rest; its length, measured by a measuring rod that is also at rest, shall be l. We now imagine that the axis of the rod is placed along the X-axis of the coordinate system at rest, and that the rod is then set in uniform parallel translational motion (velocity v) along the X-axis in the direction of increasing x. We now seek to determine the length of the moving rod, which we imagine to be obtained by the following two operations: 

(a) The observer co-moves with the above-mentioned measuring rod and the rod to be measured, and measures the length of the rod directly, by applying the measuring rod exactly as if the rod to be measured, the observer, and the measuring rod were at rest. 

(b) Using clocks at rest that are set up in the system at rest and are synchronous in the sense of §1, the observer determines the points of the system at rest at which the beginning and the end of the rod to be measured are found at some given time t. The distance between these two points, measured by the rod used before, which in the present case is at rest, is also a length, which can be designated as the  length of the rod.  

According to the principle of relativity, the length to be found in operation (a), which we shall call  the length of the rod in the moving system,  must equal the length l of the rod at rest. 

We will determine the length to be found in operation (b), which we shall call  the length of the (moving) rod in the system at rest,  on the basis of our two principles, and will find it to be different from l. 

The commonly used kinematics tacitly assumes that the lengths determined by the two methods mentioned are exactly identical, or, in other words, that in the time epoch t a moving rigid body is totally replaceable, as far as geometry is concerned, by the same body when it is at rest in a particular position. 

Further, we imagine that the two ends (A and B) of the rod are equipped with clocks that are synchronous with the clocks of the system at rest, i.e., whose readings always correspond to the  time of the system at rest  at the locations they happen to occupy; hence, these clocks are  synchronous in the system at rest.  

We further imagine that each clock has an observer co-moving with it, and that these observers apply to the two clocks the criterion for synchronism formulated in 1. Suppose a ray of light starts out from A at time1 tA, is reflected from B at time tB, and arrives back at A at time t'A. Taking into account the principle of the constancy of the velocity of light, we find that 
\begin{equation}
tB - tA = r_AB \over V - v
\end{equation}
and  
\begin{equation}
t'A - tB =r_AB \over V + v
\end{equation}
where r_{AB} denotes the length of the moving rod, measured in the system at rest. The observers co-moving with the moving rod would thus find that the two clocks do not run synchronously while the observers in the system at rest would declare them synchronous. 

Thus we see that we must not ascribe absolute meaning to the concept of simultaneity; instead, two events that are simultaneous when observed from some particular coordinate system can no longer be considered simultaneous when observed from a system that is moving relative to that system.  